5. Motivation: How color Grading can improve
your Image
At this point, lengthy technical ramblings have dominated this short excursion
into all things surrounding color grading. I maintain that I will not get into
the details of how to actually grade - far more experienced and skilled people
have written books about that. However, I want to explore a list of practical
applications for grading that can help open your eyes about what grading can
actually do beyond the general “improve your image” stuff.
Vignettes
Do you hear the cry of purists too? “Why on earth would you be-smudge a clear,
perfect, digital image shot with awesome lenses with a vignette that looks like
you used 1950s equipment? And hipster as f***?" Chances are, you just thought
the same, and so did I until I started adding vignettes myself.
Think about on-set lighting for a moment. When you light a wide shot in a
room, it is common practice to create a gradient on the walls from top to bottom.
Look at a wall near you. Chances are you will see a gradient across it. This
gradient can be achieved through a variety of means, most of which include more
than just a light stand and a 300W head.
In other words, getting that nice gradient on set can sometimes be impossible
for small, under-equipped productions or those who are in a hurry. In no way
do I want to scream “Fix it in Post!” but in this case, you actually might.
Adding a subtle vignette, maybe one that just touches the upper corners of the
frame can produce the subtle gradient on the wall you didn’t know you needed
until you had it. In the same manner, a subtle vignette will direct the viewer’s
focus to the subject. Notice how I used the word subtle. What I mean is this:
put in the vignette one day, get drunk, forget you had added it and the next
day, look at the shots and see if you notice it. If you don’t, that’s subtlety. If
you do, it’s hipster shit.
Keep in mind that vignettes become much more visible in moving shots!
Black Fill
Black fill, is the use of black boards, flags, cloth or anything really that helps
sculpt a shadow on a subject’s fill side (that is the side away from the main
light source, traditionally the side facing the camera). It is a sublime way of
adding contrast and can make your shots look so much more professional. It
also requires time and equipment to pull off on set. Using a simple gradient in
your grading suite can darken a subject’s fill side.
31
